One design choice we made while making Escape the Island was to make our Item class an abstract parent class. We knew we wanted Item to be a parent class because we knew we would need to make many different kinds of items. By making Item a parent class, we saved time typing out the same attributes for every item class. Additionally, having Item as a parent class allowed us to make ArrayLists that took Item as an input. This let us put many different kinds of items in the same list. This was very helpful for aspects of the project such as inventory. We could have just made Item a parent class without making it abstract. We made Item an abstract class because we knew we wanted the user to be able to use each object. But, each kind of item would have a different use depending on whether it was a stick, hammer, etc. 

Another design choice we made was to allow the player to win by being on the beach with the boat and all the materials needed to fix the boat. We did not make players call “fix boat” or interact with the boat in any way to win. We thought this would make the game more enjoyable for the player, adding a small element of pleasant surprise at the end. Additionally, we recognized that adding more commands to interact with the boat would take extra time and make the project more complex. We knew we would not have time to implement this method for winning.

One more design decision we made was the format and construction of the main class. As of now, our main contains all the text for the story. It is where all user interaction happens. It also sets up the game map, adding locations, items, etc. to the island. It is also where our method for parsing commands lives. Another design we could have implemented is spreading these functions out, incorporating them into other classes. We figured it would be better to have all our plot and story under one class as to keep everything in one place. This made it so that if something went wrong with anything actually displayed in the terminal during gameplay, then we knew the error was almost 100% in the main class. 
