My overall approach to tackling this project was to first start with the big idea. I had a lot of fun with the creative part: coming up with a story, setting, etc. I immersed myself in this idea of the island and different ways to escape. Then we started thinking more realistically. I imagined what it might look like to code certain aspects of the island game and pondered which elements we would need for a minimum viable product. We then thought of all the different classes that would have to be built. We then made basic outlines of the classes we knew would be parent classes. This allowed us to create the main foundation of the game. At this stage, we essentially had all of our elements and actions working. The next step was making sure that 1: the elements could interact with each other and 2: ensuring a user could interact with the elements. Once we worked this out, we began delegating smaller tasks such as checking that methods did not have adverse outcomes when working in conjunction with other methods, user input, and more. The last step has been running and rerunning the game to check and correct any easily missable mistakes. 

Something new I learned in completing this project is the usefulness of abstract classes. We used an abstract parent class to child all our items. Having the use method that we could change for each different kind of item made it really easy to make the Stick, Hammer, and Nail classes. I also learned how to read and use architecture diagrams. Our initial architecture diagram was an integral piece of planning for our project. It was our architecture diagram that gave us the blueprint and motivation we needed to start coding. Without it, I believe it would have been much harder to dive into programming.
	
Something I wish we had implemented differently is the main class. I feel like there was a path we could have taken to limit the lines of code in the main class. I felt like it ended up being a little more of a miscellaneous class that became difficult to navigate the class and know what was happening. I think with more time we could have found a way to dissolve some of the aspects of the main class into new classes or some of the classes we already built. 
	
If I had unlimited time, I would want to add different paths to the end. For example, at the beginning of the project we suggested having a tunnel from the island to the lighthouse, a portal with a 50/50 shot of taking you to the lighthouse or a monster dimension. A cool idea we thought of was having an end path where you build an SOS fire and have to fight monsters until a boat spots you. I think that would have been a really fun portion of the game. Additionally, adding more obstacles to winning such as monsters or other characters would have been cool. But, I am proud of our humble little boat and sticks. 
	
The most helpful piece of feedback I received for the project was to focus first on the minimum viable project. This advice was given to us by the professors at the very start of the project. During the brainstorming phase, I got very imaginative and it was helpful to keep in mind the minimum viable project before getting carried away with fanciful ideas that would have distracted from building the foundation of the game. 
	
If I could go back in time and give myself advice, I would tell myself “you know more than you think.” Going into the project, I was nervous because I felt like I wouldn’t have the tools I needed to implement all the things I wanted. But, early on I realized just how much I learned this semester. I was surprised to find that the majority of the skills I needed already resided in my toolbox. I think being more confident in my skills would have helped me take charge earlier on, minimizing my hesitation with jumping into the assignment.
	
I really enjoyed our team’s dynamic. I had a great time working with Claire and Abby on this project. Our biggest roadblock as a team was the fact that Claire and I were in the first section while Abby was in the second. This made it difficult to initially share ideas and get on the same page. Quickly, we found a regular time and place to meet outside of class. At these meetings, we planned our next steps and assigned each other tasks to complete. I think these delegating meetings are what helped move us along through the project. Once we found our groove, I think we worked well as a team. Everyone put in their share of work. Each of us has played an important role in creating Escape the Island. 
